Linked Data for local farming interoperability
---

On farms and in food businesses around the world, people are inventing creative solutions every day. As we rebuild the small farm economy and reintegrate agriculture as a central part of our lives, we need tools we that are appropriately scaled to suit our needs as regional producers feeding local communities. There are several [organizations](https://github.com/ouisharelabs/food-dashboard) worldwide following this vision, but unfortunately, not integrated yet. Any attempt to scale these efforts and make them cooperate sustainably will require efficient coordination and logistics, which in turn needs data described in unified ways. This dataset aims towards improving the organic food delivery processes and consumer satisfaction through linked data infrastructures, having unified ways of describing all actors (farmers, suppliers, retailers, etc.) food, ingredients, and open means to track their origin.

We want to set up some basic tools to enable [Semantic Interoperability](./glossary/semanticInteroperability.md). We don't want to create yet another shopping cart of organic products but to build up mechanisms to integrate the different kinds of tools already on the market.

Each tool address the different solutions and business models depending on their local context. We believe in the power of networks, and we envisage an opportunity where producers can be linked, where they have the freedom to codify their products and offerings in their terms, opening up heterogeneous marketplaces. Producers need [to be in control of the data they produce](./technical/distributedDatasets.md), choosing which part of this data they share with others. This is basic and essential towards [decentralization](http://p2pfoundation.net/Category:Agrifood).

The emergence of several different [non-adhoc food supply chains](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Short_food_supply_chains) enables us to map the evolving needs of data to support the evolving requirements. 

These systems are distributed and heterogeneous; it is necessary to experiment and propose different data collection systems to find out how these systems can work with the existing standards. We need to tackle several aspects of data production, such as privacy, data governance, processing, and data sharing practices.